---
title: "Brave New World Essay: Bread and Soma"
date: 2021-03-11
---

The dystopian stories that are most impactful are the ones we most see ourselves in. This is the case with _Brave New World_, which depicts a world that at first glance seems quite different from ours. Upon closer inspection, however, we start to see our own current and desired society reflected back upon us. In fact, all indications point towards Americans _wanting_ to move in the direction of Brave New World, and that we are already doing so.

Americans often wish that our lives were more efficient, centralized, and homogenous, much like the lives of citizens in the World State. When asked for their overall feelings towards the American government, only 18% of adults indicate that they are content. The rest report feeling “frustrated” or even “angry” (“Americans’ Views of Government”). Meanwhile, through tight control the World State’s government is able to create a world that is “stable”, where people are “well off”, “safe”, and “never ill” (Huxley 220). These are the qualities of life that Americans often feel the government fails to give them; instead the government seems slow, inefficient, and unable to make the right decisions. We often wish that our government could successfully keep us safe, healthy, and prosperous. What aids the World State in making people universally happy is the uniformity of personalities and lives. People are born as huge pools of twins, creating dozens of identical people. In the U.S., as we become increasingly politically divided, this sounds a bit like heaven to us — who wouldn’t want to be surrounded by people who think and believe the same things they do? Americans want some of the features of the World State’s society.

Not only do we want to move in the direction of the World State, us Americans have also already moved in that direction. Most Americans are stuck in a cycle of long and arduous work hours, after which they go home and spend their off-work hours “recov­er­ing from work in order to return back to work” (McCallum). Similarly, shift workers in Brave New World receive a ration of _soma_ “after their work’s over. Four half-gramme tablets. Six on Saturdays” (Huxley 164). They’re meant to use this _soma_ to recover from their day of work, and to numb any negative emotions that may crop up while they aren’t working. They’re also encouraged to consume entertainment that will numb them to the realities of the world and keep them occupied until the next day’s work. This sounds like many Americans’ off-work hours, which after the necessary chores and responsibilities are fulfilled, often consists of numbing entertainment watching TV, Netflix, or TikTok; Americans spend over _half_ of our leisure time watching TV (“American Time Use Survey Summary”). We’re stuck in the same cycle of working-to-live and then dazed entertainment that citizens of the World State are. In addition, we’ve already moved closer to the slick totalitarian control that the World State has over every aspect of its citizens. However, instead of government, Americans live in a world shaped and run by large tech companies. Enormous swaths of our daily lives run on technology and services from Google and Apple — the way we communicate, move, receive information about the world around us, and spend money are all smoothly operated by these large companies. In _Brave New World_, crossing the “powers that be” can result in losing one’s job and status, or being sent to solitude in Iceland. Citizens are at the whims of their controllers. Similarly, Americans are at the whims of the companies that run our lives. No matter how much you disagree with Google’s data-collection, there is _no reasonable way_ to live your life without them. Just last week, someone told the story of how missing payments on their Apple Card led to them being shut out of their entire digital life — their photos, calendar, music, iCloud account, and computer’s apps bricked as a debt-collection tactic (Hansson). For Americans, crossing our corporate controllers might cause us to find ourselves in the digital equivalent of Iceland — frozen out of our lives.

When reading _Brave New World_, the natural reaction is to distance ourselves from the world shown in order to convince ourselves that we are completely different. These horrible outcomes could never happen to us. But it is important to recognize that our world is already pointed and headed towards parts of this future. Perhaps by reading about where this type of future eventually leads, we can consider whether we want to continue towards it.

## Works Cited

“American Time Use Survey Summary.” _U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics_, U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, 25 June 2020, https://www.bls.gov/news.release/atus.nr0.htm.

“Americans’ Views of Government: Low Trust, but Some Positive Performance Ratings.” _Pew Research Center - U.S. Politics & Policy, Pew Research Center_, 7 Dec. 2020, https://www.pewresearch.org/politics/2020/09/14/americans-views-of-government-low-trust-but-some-positive-performance-ratings/.

Hansson, David Heinemeier. _Apple Can Brick Your Computer If You Miss a Payment to Goldman Sachs on the Apple Card_, 2 Mar. 2021, https://world.hey.com/dhh/apple-can-brick-your-computer-if-you-miss-a-payment-to-goldman-sachs-on-the-apple-card-87ef1755.

McCallum, Jamie, and Micah Uetricht. “Americans Work Too Damn Much.” _Jacobin_, 15 Nov. 2020, https://jacobinmag.com/2020/11/work-time-leisure-hours-overwork-labor.
