---
title: "Essay: What People See in Parable"
date: 2020-01-20
---

This fall, almost three decades after its original release, _Parable of the Sower_ found itself on the New York Times Best Seller list. After months of anxiety and disappointing leadership, people turned to the bleak but strangely hopeful novel to find solace. _Parable of the Sower_ struck a chord with readers in 2020 because Lauren shows us what hopeful, strong, and forward-looking leadership can look like in the face of enormous change.

Lauren is a practical, decisive, and empathetic leader. This year, we often wished that our leaders could be more decisive and empathetic when leading the country through periods of racial reckoning and pandemic. In Lauren we see what leadership could be: even though her world is bleak, Lauren maintains hope for a better future and is determined to help create it. She also doesn’t allow the state of the world to repress her capacity to care for others, evidenced by so many people joining her group and feeling like they belong. When her group is surprised by a poor mother and child accidentally invading their camp overnight, Lauren still offers them help: “for the little kid’s sake, I wanted to help them with at least a meal” (282). This is the kind of empathy we wish we had seen from our leaders this year, and we find hope in the idea that competent, empathetic leaders like Lauren can exist.

This summer, we as a society also reflected on the idea that the past has not been rosy for everyone. For many people — of different race, gender, or beliefs — there are no “good ol’ days” in this country. This idea surfaces when Bankole comments on how young Lauren and wishing that she “could have known this country when it was still salvageable” (327). This is the first time that we hear this idea; Lauren rarely reminisces on things she’s heard about the past. Unlike Bankole, she realizes that the past wasn’t great, and that the only way to improve conditions is to move forward. President Donner also references notions of restoring the country to its former days and getting back to normal; in other words, the Don wants to make America great (like it used to be) again. In contrast to the failed leaders in the novel and our world, Lauren understands that change is inevitable, and that the past should not limit what we strive for. Instead of resisting change, one can only hope to “learn to shape God with forethought, care, and work” (261). Lauren understands that the only way to create a better tomorrow is to intentionally shape the changes that come, which is forward-moving leadership that we often wish we had more of. Instead of holding on to a murky and nostalgic view of the past, Lauren realizes that embracing change is the only way to create a better and more equitable future for all, even former wage-slaves and those born to less privileged circumstances. In many ways, Lauren is the leader we wish we had.
