---
title: Fall 2025
date: 2025-12-25
---

*Previously: [Summer 2025](/summer-2025)*

I feel pretty settled in Boston with my [post-grad job](https://owner.com). My apartment has been made a bit cozier, and the routines feel comfortable. I am pretty good at seeing my friends, but not as much at making new ones. 

Work is _great_, actually. I really enjoy working at [Owner](https://owner.com), talking to customers (restaurant owners) frequently, and building out this website builder in the Owner mobile app myself. I like my team, I like the company, and I like my work. 

In early November, I went to San Fransisco for a company offsite with the Engineering, Product, and Design teams! It was great to see _so many colleagues_ in-person, and we crammed into a rented theater to hear presentations about 2026. 

Trisha is ever-busy with dental school, and I've learned a few things about Physiology too in the meantime. Her first semester is over, with seven more left, and I suspect this too will race by like [undergrad did](/tufts). 

For now, my days consist mostly of working (on Owner, [Buttondown](https://buttondown.com), and my own projects) and hanging out with Trisha and friends. There's not much else going on, but I enjoy working a lot, and Trisha is studying all the time, so it provides me an excuse to work. 

I'd like to make some more time for my own projects, but I know that these things are easy to wish for and hard to make happen, so we'll see. 

I also feel like I should be doing something else more outside of my normal wheelhouse — like learning a language, or bouldering, or volunteering somewhere. But for now, I feel like I have the basics in place. 